In the previous lessons, we went through examples
of how you can clean your dataset and handle missing values.
Before we can start feeding our features into any machine learning algorithm,
we need to make sure that our input is in the correct format.
Just as most other machine learning libraries,
Spark cannot expects numeric input values.
So if you are dealing with categorical variables or free-form text,
we need to transform our features first.
Even for numeric data, we might need to risk here
that particular feature to enhance certain algorithms performance.
So let's start with scanning numeric features.
Our raw features might be on a very different scales.
Think for example, about how many songs a user listened to
in the past hour versus how many days ago they started using our service?
If you use a classifier that calculates the distance
between two data points based on Euclidean distance,
the feature with divided strange may dominate the result.
This is why we need to normalize our features to the same range
typically in between zero and one or minus one and one.
Spark supports many different scaling approaches including
normalizer, StandardScaler, MinMaxScaler, and MaxAbsScaler,
which you can find links to below.
Spark also supports String Indexer,
Index to String, and Vector Indexer which you can find links to below.
We will also do some work on text processing later in this lesson.